Body and mind

 0 Mehr Nächster Blog» Blog erstellen Anmelden




































Body and mind


























































mardi 14 février 2017


Footing for a fox



Abstatt, germany. Run on the fresh snow
Hi everyone,
 This is my first article and I am really excited !
 
 I'll talk here about my transition to minimalist running, it is still in process and hard but worth it. I hope you'll understand why.
 
 All the articles I will write will be really personal so that I can explain why I do what I do when I do it.
 
 So... I starting running seriously 3 years ago at the age of 20. Actually, after breaking up I suddenly had a lot of anger and thoughts to drain out of myself. Progressing goes so fast that you soon don't remember how you was dying after 20 minutes in the beginning.
 
 
 Minimalist, so you run barefoot ?
 
 I had like to if it was possible.
 I started to change the way I run, I walk and I behave for 3 month now. At the beginning it is a real challenge, let me explain.
 
Source : Pintrest / barefoot - running
In the picture above you can see clearly the difference. It is also true for walking, I really have this strange sensation to walk like this guy (Mewtwo). ?

Mewtew : Pokemon
Though the more I walk like that, the more I feel like everyone around me is walking the wrong way. I took ride of the soles in all my shoes and I almost never wear those with drop (difference of thickness between the front and the back of the shoe).
 Just try and you will see what I mean. ;)
 
 Why don't you take off your shoes, you'll ask me ?
 
 Simply because for now I can't. I walked maybe 20 years of my life inside shoes and on the back of feet. Muscles, tendons, positions, skin, everything is configured to walk and run that way and I can't change it in a blink of an eye.
 Furthermore there are 2 main reasons for not being barefoot. The first is that people think you will give them plantar warts if you walk barefoot on the same floor they step on (with shoes -_-). And the other one is physical, it's cold and painful for my soft hoofs on the asphalt... But don't worry it doesn't mean that it is impossible.
 
 Ok, but all the running shoes have a drop, no ?
 
 Actually no, on the first picture I am wearing a pair of Vibram fivefingers V-Run. If you pay attention on the sole you'll see that there is no drop (0 mm). And don't tell me that I must hurt my knees and the back of my feet, remember minimalist shoes AND minimalist running.
 It's not the only brand which design 0 drop shoes, both for running and everyday shoes. Just have a quick look on google, or go to a professional, he will advise you better than I.
 What I really like on these shoes is that all the attention is on the sole and it's usually vibram soles. They are resistant because built for trekking, light and flexible. For example I wore Salomon X-Screamer for a long time and I wore medical soles with drop. It might weight 500 grams per shoe in total. It's two times the weight of both of my fivefingers. I don't need orthopedic soles anymore by the way.
 
 Wait what it cured your problem ?
 
 No, not at all ! And be careful not to do that if you are not self confident. I use medical soles because my tendons are not flex enough. I got Achilles' tendon tendinitis on both legs and ilio tibial tendinitis ("windshield wiper syndrome") on my right knee after my first competition.
 These injuries are common and I know how to treat them so I took this risk to get ride of my medical soles. Though I am not responsible if you finish at the hospital after trying to do the same. Though I really regret the fact that the medical personnel cures people with soles. This is another subject that I probably won't treat on my blog, I don't want to start a riot :p
 

Source : minimalistrunningshoes.org
 Marrell running range
 


Source : http://www.thesoshalnetwork.com
 Old range of vibram fivefingers, just to give an idea
 
 
 Ok, ok cool... It ugly, you know that ? It will never fit my outfit !
 
 Well, I think I got used to it because I don't think these shoes are ugly. And I find it really cool when I see people wear them. That's just my point of view but there is another parameter to take into account. It is extremely comfortable !
 I ordered mine on Amazon, I measured the exact size of BOTH of my feet on a sheet of paper. Because one is always bigger than the other, one has to take the upper size. Then with the guide I matched my size with the corresponding range and picked 43. It's my usual size so I was confident and effectively, I don't think I ever wore so comfortable shoes before. It's exactly like wearing slippers. Obviously the sole is really hard so that you feel the ground. When running it is the same, especially if you usually run barefoot before buying these ^_^
 In France a pair of V-RUN fivefingers is valued around 75 euros, half the price of many running shoes. I think it's worth it mainly because I am a freakin miser but anyway.
 For sensitives to cold you can find special socks but personally I don't need them. I probably buy a pair anyway to fulfil 2 empty millimeters in the end of my toes and reduce perspiration.
 
 What ? You don't wear socks and these shoes has little holes ?
 
 During my transition I tried a lot of things because I wanted to take contact again with the ground. I started this experience in Germany at the beginning of the winter. The least that I can say is that our bodies are way stronger then what we think. And protecting them too much is a bad thing in my opinion.
 So in december the temperatures dropped under 0 degree and I told myself. Can I go running outside without shoes ? I did a little run around the corner of the street and my feet started to heat up really quickly. In the end it is not painful, even under 0 degrees. Your enemies are water and wind because they fasten the evacuation of the heat.
 With the sole of a running shoe you don't have contact with the floor so all the heat stays inside the shoes. And trust me, running barefoot on the snow if one of the best sensations I have ever get to feel ;)
 
 Uhm... I wonder what are the other sensations :p
 
 That's for another article, now I want to warn you.
 I said it was a transition, it is not magical.
 It has been 3 month now that I am running barefoot or with fivefingers. I still didn't reach the level I had before but I am close to it. I feel lucky because people take sometimes one year to reach their original performances.
 Here is the list of the things that I had in 3 month :
Skin hypersensitivity
Calves stiffness then thighs stiffness
Front foot neuromas (intern and extern joints on both feet)
Achilles' tendon tendinitis (light)
Tibialis anterior knee tendon tendinitis
Flexor hallucis brevis cramps (it's brand new)

I never thought I could have cramps in the feet before.
 The worst injury is the neuroma because it's a deep pain and you have to stop running. After 3 days it should pass almost entirely, but I think these pains are part of the transition. I remarked that my little toes are wrong axed so I guess the nerves between the phalanges and the metatarsals are too compressed. 
 What is strange is that instinctively we know what to do to cure it. Stretch the toes is really good and it's instinctive after running barefoot (you really want to put your fingers in between your smelly toes hummmmmm).
 
 Anyway, for tendinitis, stretching is the only real cure in my opinion. In my case I get some when my stop feeling stiffnesses. Muscles are pulling suddenly harder and the tendons are not prepared. If you are not flex, work on the muscles AND also the tendons, you will not feel the relief as for muscles stretch but it is at least as important.  

 
 So many injures, it must be dangerous !
 
 Yes, I guess it is. In the beginning it is complex to understand the biomechanics in this new position. Nevertheless you can balance the effort more easily when running in min